New Flutter agent docs (#12069)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-flutter/monitor-your-flutter-application.mdx

---
title: Monitor your Flutter app
tags:
    - Flutter
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Flutter
    - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Flutter agent for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
---

Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, and use distributed tracing to drill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.

add img here

Ready to get started? Follow the steps below! 

## Step 1: Review the requirements

Before you start the install process, make sure your Flutter app meets these version requirements:

> * Flutter 2.5 and higher.
> * Dart 2.16.2 and higher, up to 2.9.9
> 

Author: ```suggestion
* Flutter >= 2.5.0
* Dart >=2.16.2, <3.0.0

```

```dart
import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_navigation_observer.dart';

//....

MaterialApp(
    navigatorObservers: [
        NewRelicNavigationObserver(),
    ],
    // other parameters
)
```

### GoRouter: Enable automatic routing instrumentation [#screen-nav-events]

When using the [go_router library](https://pub.dev/packages/go_router), you can enable the automatic routing instrumentation by adding an instance of `NewRelicNavigationObserver` to your application's `GoRouter.observers`:

```dart
//....

import 'package:go_router/go_router.dart';
import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_navigation_observer.dart';

final router = GoRouter(
    routes: ...,
        observers: [NewRelicNavigationObserver()],
);
```
### Manually report errors [#report-errors]

You can manually report non-fatal exceptions using custom attributes in the following method:

```dart
try {
    some_code_that_throws_error();
} catch (ex) {
NewrelicMobile.instance
        .recordError(error, StackTrace.current, attributes: attributes);
}
```

### Create custom events and metrics

To create custom events and metrics, you'll need to use the iOS or Android SDK APIs.

> Here are some examples:

Reviewer: @ally-sassman we need remove android and ios, all example are  for flutter app only,

Ready to get started? Follow the steps below! 

## Step 1: Review the requirements

Before you start the install process, make sure your Flutter app meets these version requirements:

* Flutter 2.5 and higher.
* Dart 2.16.2 and higher, up to 2.9.9

For Android-native apps:
    * Android API 24+
    * See [Android native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)

For iOS-native apps:
    * See [IOS native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)

## Step 2: Install the Flutter agent 

First, you'll need to install the New Relic plugin into your dart project. In your `pubspec.yaml`, add the following to `dependencies`: 

```dart
dependencies:
    newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1-dev.10
```

## Step 3: Copy your application token #app-token

The application token is used for New Relic to authenticate your Flutter app's data. 

To view and copy your application token in the New Relic UI:

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, click **Add data**, then click **Mobile**.
2. Select your Flutter app. 

> 3. Go to **Settings > Application**, and copy the displayed **Application token**.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Go to **Settings > Application** and copy the displayed **Application token**.
```

You'll add the token to configuration code in the next step. 

## Step 4: Configure your Flutter project

In your Flutter project, open `main.dart` and add the following code:

```dart
import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_mobile.dart';

    var appToken = "";

    if (Platform.isAndroid) {
        appToken = "<android app token>"; // Replace with your application token copied from the New Relic UI. 
    } else if (Platform.isIOS) {
        appToken = "<ios app token>"; // Replace with your application token copied from the New Relic UI. 
    }

    Config config =
        Config(accessToken: appToken,

        //Android Specific
        // Optional: Enable or disable collection of event data.
        analyticsEventEnabled: true,

>         // Optional:Enable or disable reporting successful HTTP requests to the MobileRequest event type.
>         networkErrorRequestEnabled: true,
> 
>         // Optional:Enable or disable reporting network and HTTP request errors to the MobileRequestError event type.
>         networkRequestEnabled: true,
> 
>         // Optional:Enable or disable crash reporting.
>         crashReportingEnabled: true,
> 
>         // Optional:Enable or disable interaction tracing. Trace instrumentation still occurs, but no traces are harvested. This will disable default and custom interactions.
>         interactionTracingEnabled: true,

Author: ```suggestion
        // Optional: Enable or disable reporting successful HTTP requests to the MobileRequest event type.
        networkErrorRequestEnabled: true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable reporting network and HTTP request errors to the MobileRequestError event type.
        networkRequestEnabled: true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable crash reporting.
        crashReportingEnabled: true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable interaction tracing. Trace instrumentation still occurs, but no traces are harvested. This will disable default and custom interactions.
        interactionTracingEnabled: true,
```

        // Optional: Enable or disable capture of HTTP response bodies for HTTP error traces and MobileRequestError events.
        httpResponseBodyCaptureEnabled: true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable agent logging.
        loggingEnabled: true,

>         //iOS Specific

Author: ```suggestion
        //iOS specific
```

## (Android-only) Step 5: Configure your Android app

If you have an Android-native app, you'll need make the following changes in your Android app:

1. Add the following changes to your app's `android/build.gradle` file:

```dart
buildscript {
        ...
        repositories {
            ...
            mavenCentral()
        }
        dependencies {
            ...
            classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.2"
        }
    }
```
2. Apply the `newrelic` plugin to the top of your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```dart
apply plugin: "com.android.application"
apply plugin: 'newrelic' // <-- add this
```

3. Add `INTERNET` and `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` permissions in your `AndroidManifest.xml` file:

```dart
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

And you're done! You should start seeing data in New Relic within 5 minutes. 

## View Flutter data in New Relic

Now that you've got the Flutter agent sending data to New Relic, it's time to view, track, and set up alerts for your Flutter app data. 

> 

Author: @ndesai-newrelic In our meeting you mentioned we're storing logs as custom events so we need to give instructions on how to query the logs. Can you provide a query example and I'll add a section here?

## Troubleshooting

Having trouble finding HTTP data in the UI?

### Problem

After installing the Flutter agent and waiting at least 5 minutes, **No Http data appears:** on the **HTTP errors** and **HTTP requests** UI pages. 

### Solution

> If no Http data appears after you wait at least five minutes, check you are not overriding `HttpOverrides.global` inside your Flutter app.

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Is this troubleshooting problem/solution applicable to other mobile app types, or just Flutter?

```dart
if (Platform.isAndroid) {
    appToken = AppConfig.androidToken;
} else if (Platform.isIOS) {
    appToken = AppConfig.iOSToken;
}

Config config = Config(
    accessToken: appToken,
    analyticsEventEnabled: true,
    networkErrorRequestEnabled: true,
    networkRequestEnabled: true,
    crashReportingEnabled: true,
    interactionTracingEnabled: true,
    httpResponseBodyCaptureEnabled: true,
    loggingEnabled: true,
    webViewInstrumentation: true,
    printStatementAsEventsEnabled: true,
    httpInstrumentationEnabled:true);

// NewrelicMobile.instance.start(config, () {
//   runApp(MyApp());
// });

runZonedGuarded(() async {
    WidgetsFlutterBinding.ensureInitialized();
    FlutterError.onError = NewrelicMobile.onError;
    await NewrelicMobile.instance.startAgent(config);
    runApp(MyApp());
}, (Object error, StackTrace stackTrace) {
    NewrelicMobile.instance.recordError(error, stackTrace);
});
```

AppToken is platform specific. You need to generate the separate token for Android and iOS apps.

## Track screen navigation events

> In order to track navigation events you have to add the NewRelicNavigationObserver to your MaterialApp, WidgetsApp or CupertinoApp.

Author: ```suggestion
In order to track navigation events, you'll need to add the `NewRelicNavigationObserver` to your MaterialApp, WidgetsApp, or CupertinoApp.
```

> You should provide a name to route settings: RouteSettings(name: 'Your Route Name'). The root route name / will be replaced by root "/" for clarity's sake.

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Is this a mandatatory step? If so, I'll remove the "you should" and replace it with something more instructional.

```dart
import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_navigation_observer.dart';

//....

MaterialApp(
    navigatorObservers: [
        NewRelicNavigationObserver(),
    ],
    // other parameters
)
```

### GoRouter: Enable automatic routing instrumentation [#screen-nav-events]

> When using the [go_router library](https://pub.dev/packages/go_router), the automatic routing instrumentation can be enabled by adding an instance of NewRelicNavigationObserver to your application's GoRouter.observers:

Author: ```suggestion
When using the [go_router library](https://pub.dev/packages/go_router), you can enable the automatic routing instrumentation by adding an instance of `NewRelicNavigationObserver` to your application's `GoRouter.observers`:
```

```dart
//....

import 'package:go_router/go_router.dart';
import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_navigation_observer.dart';

final router = GoRouter(
    routes: ...,
        observers: [NewRelicNavigationObserver()],
);
```
### Manually report errors [#report-errors]

You can manually report non-fatal exceptions using custom attributes in the following method:

```dart
try {
    some_code_that_throws_error();
} catch (ex) {
NewrelicMobile.instance
        .recordError(error, StackTrace.current, attributes: attributes);
}
```

### Create custom events and metrics

> To create custom events and metrics, you'll need to use the iOS or Android SDK APIs.

Author: @ndesai-newrelic @JustinRush-NR Can you confirm if this is a correct summary of the usage examples?

Here are some examples:

<CollapserGroup>
  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Track a method as an interaction"

>   >

Author: @ndesai-newrelic @JustinRush-NR I'm working on troubleshooting this collapser, but what do you think about putting these APIs in collapsers? Do you think the other advanced customizations would work in collapsers too? The only problem with collapsers is that they embed the content, which makes it difficult to find using our search bar or Google. But it does help consolidate content if we want to keep everything on one page, especially when the content is optional.

```
    </Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="iOS: Creates a session-level attribute shared by multiple mobile event types"
>
**[setAttribute] (/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/ios-sdk-api)(String name, dynamic value) : void;**

Creates a session-level attribute shared by multiple mobile event types. Overwrites its previous value and type each time it is called.

```dart
    NewrelicMobile.instance.setAttribute('RNCustomAttrNumber', 37);
```

</Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Connect user sessions with analytical events and attributes"
>
**[setUserId](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api/set-user-id)(String userId): void;**

Set a custom user identifier value to associate user sessions with analytics events and attributes.

```dart
    NewrelicMobile.instance.setUserId("RN12934");
```

</Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Record breadcrumbs"
>
**[recordBreadcrumb](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api/recordbreadcrumb)(String name,{Map<String, dynamic>? eventAttributes}): void;**

> Track app activity/screen that may be helpful for troubleshooting crashes.

Author: ```suggestion
Track app activity/screen to help troubleshoot crashes.
```

```
</Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Configure max event buffer time"
>
**[setMaxEventBufferTime](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api/set-max-event-buffer-time)(int maxBufferTimeInSec) void;**

Sets the event harvest cycle length.

```dart
    NewrelicMobile.instance.setMaxEventBufferTime(200);
```
</Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Configure the size of an event pool"
>
**[setMaxEventPoolSize](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api/set-max-event-pool-size)(int maxSize): void;**

Sets the maximum size of the event pool.

```dart
    NewrelicMobile.instance.setMaxEventPoolSize(10000);
```

</Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Manually track network requests"
  >
**[noticeHttpTransaction](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api/notice-http-transaction/)(String url,String httpMethod,int statusCode,int startTime,int endTime,int bytesSent,int bytesReceived,Map<String, dynamic>? traceData,{String responseBody = ""}): void;**

> Tracks network requests manually. You can use this method to record HTTP transactions, with an option to also send a response body.

Author: ```suggestion
Tracks network requests manually. You can use this method to record HTTP transactions, including an option to also send a response body.
```

```dart
    NewrelicMobile.instance.noticeNetworkFailure("https://cb6b02be-a319-4de5-a3b1-361de2564493.mock.pstmn.io/searchpage", "GET", 1000, 2000,'Test Network Failure', NetworkFailure.dnsLookupFailed);
```

</Collapser>

    <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Android: Record network failures"
>
**[noticeNetworkFailure](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/android-sdk-api/notice-network-failure/)(String url,String httpMethod,int startTime,int endTime,NetworkFailure errorCode): void;**

> Records network failures. If a network request fails, use this method to record details about the failures. In most cases, place this call inside exception handlers, such as catch blocks. Supported failures are: `Unknown`, `BadURL`, `TimedOut`, `CannotConnectToHost`, `DNSLookupFailed`, `BadServerResponse`, `SecureConnectionFailed`.

Author: ```suggestion
Records network failures. If a network request fails, use this method to record details about the failures. In most cases, place this call inside exception handlers, such as catch blocks. Supported failures are: 
* `Unknown`
* `BadURL`
* `TimedOut`
* `CannotConnectToHost`
* `DNSLookupFailed`
* `BadServerResponse`
* `SecureConnectionFailed`
```

---
title: Monitor your Flutter app
tags:
    - Flutter
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Flutter
    - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Flutter agent for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
---

import mobileFlutterOverview from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_flutter-overview.png'

Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, and use distributed tracing to drill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.

<img
  title="mobile UI for flutter "
  alt="mobile UI for flutter "
  src={mobileFlutterOverview}
/>

<figcaption>
  

> </figcaption>

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Can you provide a screenshot of sample Flutter app and some populated data in NR?

Ready to get started? Follow the steps below! 

## Step 1: Review the requirements

Before you start the install process, make sure your Flutter app meets these version requirements:

* Flutter 2.5 and higher.
* Dart 2.16.2 and higher, up to 2.9.9

For Android-native apps:
    * Android API 24+
    * See [Android native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)

For iOS-native apps:
    * See [IOS native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)

## Step 2: Install the Flutter agent 

First, you'll need to install the New Relic plugin into your dart project. In your `pubspec.yaml`, add the following to `dependencies`: 

```dart
dependencies:
    newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1-dev.10
```

## Step 3: Copy your application token #app-token

The application token is used for New Relic to authenticate your Flutter app's data. 

To view and copy your application token in the New Relic UI:

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities)**, click **Add data**, then click **Mobile**.
2. Select your Flutter app. 

> 3. Go to **Settings > Application**, and copy the displayed **Application token**.

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Is it assumed they've already created an app in NR for their flutter app?

```dart
buildscript {
        ...
        repositories {
            ...
            mavenCentral()
        }
        dependencies {
            ...
            classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.2"
        }
    }
```
2. Apply the `newrelic` plugin to the top of your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```dart
apply plugin: "com.android.application"
apply plugin: 'newrelic' // <-- add this
```

3. Add `INTERNET` and `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` permissions in your `AndroidManifest.xml` file:

```dart
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

And you're done! You should start seeing data in New Relic within 5 minutes. 

## View Flutter data in New Relic

Now that you've got the Flutter agent sending data to New Relic, it's time to view, track, and set up alerts for your Flutter app data. 

## Troubleshooting

Having trouble finding HTTP data in the UI?

### Problem

After installing the Flutter agent and waiting at least 5 minutes, **No Http data appears:** on the **HTTP errors** and **HTTP requests** UI pages. 

### Solution

> If no http data appears after you wait at least five minutes, check you are not overriding HttpOverrides.global inside your flutter app.

Author: ```suggestion
If no http data appears after you wait at least five minutes, check you are not overriding `HttpOverrides.global` inside your Flutter app.
```

> If no http data appears after you wait at least five minutes, check you are not overriding HttpOverrides.global inside your flutter app.

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Is this troubleshooting problem applicable just for Flutter, for all hybrid agents, or for all agents/mobile apps?

## (Android-only) Step 5: Configure your Android app

If you have an Android-native app, you'll need make the following changes in your Android app:

1. Add the following changes to your app's `android/build.gradle` file:

```dart
buildscript {
        ...
        repositories {
            ...
            mavenCentral()
        }
        dependencies {
            ...
            classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.2"
        }
    }
```
2. Apply the `newrelic` plugin to the top of your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```dart
apply plugin: "com.android.application"
apply plugin: 'newrelic' // <-- add this
```

3. Add `INTERNET` and `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` permissions in your `AndroidManifest.xml` file:

```dart
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

And you're done! You should start seeing data in New Relic within 5 minutes. 

## View Flutter data in New Relic

> Now that you've got the Flutter agent sending data to New Relic, it's time to view, track, and set up alerts for your Flutter app data. 

Author: Which UI features do we want to highlight for  monitoring Flutter apps? i.e., distributed tracing, exceptions (event trails)

Reviewer: Navigation Events in Event Trail

> // Which UI features do we want to highlight for  monitoring Flutter apps? i.e., distributed tracing, exceptions (event trails).

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Monitor your Flutter app
tags:
    - Flutter
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Flutter
    - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Flutter agent for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
---

> import mobileFlutterOverview from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_flutter-overview.png'

Author: ```suggestion
```

> import mobileFlutterOverview from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_flutter-overview.png'

Author: ```suggestion
```

Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, and use distributed tracing to drill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.

> <img
>   title="mobile UI for flutter "
>   alt="mobile UI for flutter "
>   src={mobileFlutterOverview}
> />
> 
> <figcaption>
>   
> </figcaption>

Author: ```suggestion
add img here
```

> <img
>   title="mobile UI for flutter "
>   alt="mobile UI for flutter "
>   src={mobileFlutterOverview}
> />
> 
> <figcaption>
>   
> </figcaption>

Author: ```suggestion
add img here
```

        networkRequestEnabled: true,

        // Optional:Enable or disable crash reporting.
        crashReportingEnabled: true,

        // Optional:Enable or disable interaction tracing. Trace instrumentation still occurs, but no traces are harvested. This will disable default and custom interactions.
        interactionTracingEnabled: true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable capture of HTTP response bodies for HTTP error traces and MobileRequestError events.
        httpResponseBodyCaptureEnabled: true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable agent logging.
        loggingEnabled: true,

        //iOS Specific
        // Optional: Enable or disable automatic instrumentation of WebViews
        webViewInstrumentation: true,

        //Optional: Enable or disable Print Statements as Analytics Events
        printStatementAsEventsEnabled : true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable automatic instrumentation of Http Request
        httpInstrumentationEnabled:true
        );

    NewrelicMobile.instance.start(config, () {
        runApp(MyApp());
    });

    class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
    ....
```

> Make sure you pasted your application token(s) copied from [Step 2](#app-token) into `appToken = ""` in the code above. If you're monitoring both an' Android-native and iOS-native app, you'll need to copy and paste tokens for both.

Author: ```suggestion
Make sure you pasted your application token(s) (copied from [Step 2](#app-token)) into `appToken = ""` in the code above. If you're monitoring both Android-native and iOS-native apps, you'll need to add tokens for both.
```

## (Android-only) Step 5: Configure your Android app

> If you have an Android-native app, you'll need to finish the Flutter agent setup by configuring your Android app:

Author: ```suggestion
If you have an Android-native app, you'll need make the following changes in your Android app:
```

  alt="mobile UI for flutter "
  src={mobileFlutterOverview}
/>

<figcaption>
  
</figcaption>

Ready to get started? 

This agent allows you to instrument Flutter apps with help of native New Relic Android and iOS agents. The New Relic SDKs collect crashes, network traffic, and other information for hybrid apps using native components.

Ready to get started? Follow the steps below! 

## Step 1: Review the requirements

Before you start the install process, make sure your Flutter app meets these version requirements:

* Flutter 2.5 and higher.
* Dart 2.16.2 and higher, up to 2.9.9

For Android-native apps:
    * Android API 24+
    * See [Android native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)

For iOS-native apps:
    * See [IOS native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)

## Step 2: Install the Flutter agent 

First, you'll need to install the New Relic plugin into your dart project. In your `pubspec.yaml`, add the following to `dependencies`: 

```dart
dependencies:
    newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1-dev.10
```

> ## Step 3: Copy your application token #app-token

Author: Is it assumed they've already created an app in NR for their flutter app?

The application token is used for New Relic to authenticate your Flutter app's data. 

To view and copy your application token in the New Relic UI:

> // Is it assumed they've already created an app in NR for their flutter app?

Author: ```suggestion
```

    appToken = AppConfig.iOSToken;
}

Config config = Config(
    accessToken: appToken,
    analyticsEventEnabled: true,
    networkErrorRequestEnabled: true,
    networkRequestEnabled: true,
    crashReportingEnabled: true,
    interactionTracingEnabled: true,
    httpResponseBodyCaptureEnabled: true,
    loggingEnabled: true,
    webViewInstrumentation: true,
    printStatementAsEventsEnabled: true,
    httpInstrumentationEnabled:true);

// NewrelicMobile.instance.start(config, () {
//   runApp(MyApp());
// });

runZonedGuarded(() async {
    WidgetsFlutterBinding.ensureInitialized();
    FlutterError.onError = NewrelicMobile.onError;
    await NewrelicMobile.instance.startAgent(config);
    runApp(MyApp());
}, (Object error, StackTrace stackTrace) {
    NewrelicMobile.instance.recordError(error, stackTrace);
});
```

AppToken is platform specific. You need to generate separate tokens for Android and iOS apps.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Track screen navigation events"
  >

In order to track navigation events, you'll need to add the `NewRelicNavigationObserver` to your MaterialApp, WidgetsApp, or CupertinoApp.

> You should provide a name to route settings: `RouteSettings(name: 'Your Route Name')`. The root route name / will be replaced by root "/" for clarity's sake.

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Can you clarify this? `RouteSettings` isn't in the code sample, so it's confusing what this is referencing.

Reviewer: @ally-sassman it is referencing this API, we can provide navigation structure file to give more information

---
title: Monitor your Flutter app
tags:
    - Flutter
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Flutter
    - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Flutter agent for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
---

import mobileFlutterOverview from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_flutter-overview.png'

> Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, and use distributed tracicingdrill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.

Author: What are the top three most important features to mention here?

---
title: Monitor your Flutter app
tags:
    - Flutter
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Flutter
    - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Flutter agent for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
---

import mobileFlutterSummary from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_flutter-summary.png'

Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, and use distributed tracing to drill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.

<img
  title="Flutter summary view in the UI"

>   alt="summary view of a flutter app in new relic"

Author: ```suggestion
  alt="Summary view of a flutter app in new relic"
```

* [Handled exceptions](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/crashes/handled-exceptions-analyze-trends-prevent-crashes/)
* [Http requests](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/network-pages/http-requests-page/)
* [Set up alerts](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile/get-started/mobile-monitoring-alert-information/)

<Callout variant="tip" title="Troubleshoot missing data in the UI">

Having trouble finding HTTP data in the UI?

### Problem

After installing the Flutter agent and waiting at least 5 minutes, **No Http data appears:** on the **HTTP errors** and **HTTP requests** UI pages. 

### Solution

If no Http data appears after you wait at least five minutes, check you are not overriding `HttpOverrides.global` inside your Flutter app.

    </Callout>

## Query log data 

New Relic stores your Flutter logs as custom events. You can query these logs and build dashboards for them using this NRQL query:
```
 SELECT * FROM Mobile Dart Console Events SINCE 30 MINUTES AGO
```

> For more info on NRQL queries, see [Introduction to NRQL](docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/#where).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information on NRQL queries, see [Introduction to NRQL](docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language/#where).
```

```dart
buildscript {
        ...
        repositories {
            ...
            mavenCentral()
        }
        dependencies {
            ...
            classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.2"
        }
    }
```
2. Apply the `newrelic` plugin to the top of your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```dart
apply plugin: "com.android.application"
apply plugin: 'newrelic' // <-- add this
```

3. Add `INTERNET` and `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` permissions in your `AndroidManifest.xml` file:

```dart
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

And you're done! You should start seeing data in New Relic within 5 minutes. 

## View Flutter data in New Relic

Now that you've got the Flutter agent sending data to New Relic, it's time to view your app data in New Relic.

Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Mobile >** (select your Flutter app) **> Summary** to see a summary of your data over time. 

<img
  title="handled exceptions and event trails"
  alt="view handled exceptions and their event trails in New Relic"

>   src={mobileflutterHandledException}

Reviewer 2: what image should be imported for this?

Author: Oh, that needs to be removed!

> <img
>   title="handled exceptions and event trails"
>   alt="view handled exceptions and their event trails in New Relic"
>   src={mobileflutterHandledException}
> />
> 
> <figcaption>
>     **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Mobile >** (select an app) **> Handled exceptions >** (click on a handled exception): Drill down into stack traces and event trails to help troubleshoot handled exceptions.
> </figcaption>
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> With the Flutter agent, you have access to all mobile monitoring features, such as tracking crashes, Http requests, and handled exceptions. Check out these feature pages for more info:

Author: ```suggestion
With the Flutter agent, you have access to all mobile monitoring features, such as tracking crashes, Http requests, and handled exceptions. Check out these key features: 
```

> * [Mobile app summary](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/mobile-app-pages/mobile-apps-summary-page/#details)

Author: ```suggestion
* Distributed tracing for[iOS](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-and-dt/)[Android](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-and-dt/)
```

    FlutterError.onError = NewrelicMobile.onError;
    await NewrelicMobile.instance.startAgent(config);
    runApp(MyApp());
}, (Object error, StackTrace stackTrace) {
    NewrelicMobile.instance.recordError(error, stackTrace);
});
```

AppToken is platform specific. You need to generate separate tokens for Android and iOS apps.

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Track screen navigation events"
  >

1. In order to track navigation events, you'll need to add the `NewRelicNavigationObserver` to your MaterialApp, WidgetsApp, or CupertinoApp.

```dart
import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_navigation_observer.dart';

//....

2. Add a name to route settings: `RouteSettings(name: 'Your Route Name')`. The root route name / will be replaced by root "/" for clarity's sake:

```dart
 routes: { 
    // When navigating to the "/" route, build the HomeScreen widget. 
    '/': (context) => HomeScreen(), 
    // When navigating to the "/second" route, build the SecondScreen widget. 
    '/second': (context) => SecondScreen(), 
  },

MaterialApp(
    navigatorObservers: [
        NewRelicNavigationObserver(),
    ],
    // other parameters
)

> ```

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Looking at the sample you provided in Slack, it still doesn't have RouteSettings in it. Where does it fit in then? Please propose a suggestion here.

---
title: Monitor your Flutter app
tags:
    - Flutter
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Flutter
    - Get started
metaDescription: "New Relic's Flutter agent for Android and iOS: Features, compatibility, requirements, installation, and upgrade procedures."
---

import mobileFlutterSummary from 'images/mobile_screenshot-full_flutter-summary.png'

> Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, and use distributed tracing to drill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Monitor your Flutter application with our New Relic Flutter agent. Capture Dart errors, track specific network requests, use distributed tracing to drill down into handled exceptions, and create custom tracking events and metrics to fully capture your end users' experience.
```

> <img

Reviewer 3: This image is REALLY big. I'd make it smaller (like the actual image itself by resizing the file) or putting it into a side-by-side w/ the intro

  title="Flutter summary view in the UI"
  alt="Summary view of a flutter app in New Relic"
  src={mobileFlutterSummary}
/>

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Mobile >** (select an app) **> Summary**: View Flutter data, track Http requests and errors, and monitor how your app is performing over time.
</figcaption>

Ready to get started? Follow the steps below! 

> ## Step 1: Review the requirements

Reviewer 3: I would reformat this entire procedure into the steps component we now have. Should just take a minute or two, it's pretty easy! https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/style-guide/structure/steps/

Before you install the Flutter agent, make sure your Flutter app meets these version requirements:

* Flutter 2.5.0 or higher

> * Dart {'>='} 2.16.2, {'<'} 3.0.0

Reviewer 3: Just write out "or higher" and "or lower" https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/style-guide/word-choice/usage-dictionary/#version

        httpResponseBodyCaptureEnabled: true,
        loggingEnabled: true,
        webViewInstrumentation: true,
        printStatementAsEventsEnabled: true,
        httpInstrumentationEnabled:true);

    // NewrelicMobile.instance.start(config, () {
    //   runApp(MyApp());
    // });

    runZonedGuarded(() async {
        WidgetsFlutterBinding.ensureInitialized();
        FlutterError.onError = NewrelicMobile.onError;
        await NewrelicMobile.instance.startAgent(config);
        runApp(MyApp());
    }, (Object error, StackTrace stackTrace) {
        NewrelicMobile.instance.recordError(error, stackTrace);
    });
    ```

    AppToken is platform specific. You need to generate separate tokens for Android and iOS apps.

    </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    className="freq-link"
    id=""
    title="Track screen navigation events"
  >

In order to track navigation events, you'll need to add the `NewRelicNavigationObserver` to your `MaterialApp`, `WidgetsApp`, or `CupertinoApp`.

```dart

import 'package:newrelic_mobile/newrelic_navigation_observer.dart';

//....

MaterialApp(
  navigatorObservers: [
    NewRelicNavigationObserver(),
  ],
  // other parameters
)
```

> Add a name to route settings to help track each screen view/activity. Here's an example:

Author: @ndesai-newrelic Is this _why_ you'd want to add route names? Are we recommending customers to do this for every screen?

Reviewer: yes, that's reason and we are recommending customers on each screen

> Add a name to route settings to help track each screen view/activity. Here's an example:

Author: ```suggestion
Add a name to `routes:` settings to help track each screen view/activity. Here's an example:
```

<img
  title="Flutter summary view in the UI"
  alt="Summary view of a flutter app in New Relic"
  src={mobileFlutterSummary}
/>

<figcaption>
  **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Mobile >** (select an app) **> Summary**: View Flutter data, track Http requests and errors, and monitor how your app is performing over time.
</figcaption>

Ready to get started? Follow the steps below! 

<Steps>

<Step>
## Review the requirements

Before you install the Flutter agent, make sure your Flutter app meets these version requirements:

* Flutter 2.5.0 or higher
* Dart {'>='} 2.16.2, {'<'} 3.0.0

For Android-native apps:
    * Android API 24 or higher
    * See [Android-native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/new-relic-android-compatibility-requirements)

For iOS-native apps:
    * See [iOS-native requirements](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-ios/get-started/new-relic-ios-compatibility-requirements)
</Step>

<Step>
## Install the Flutter agent 

First, you'll need to add the Flutter agent into your dart project. In your `pubspec.yaml`, add the following to `dependencies`: 

```dart
dependencies:

>     newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1-dev.10

Reviewer: @ally-sassman can you update it to **newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1**?

>     newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1-dev.10

Author: ```suggestion
    newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1
```

>     newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1-dev.10

Author: ```suggestion
    newrelic_mobile: 0.0.1
```

        loggingEnabled: true,

        // iOS specific
        // Optional: Enable or disable automatic instrumentation of WebViews
        webViewInstrumentation: true,

        //Optional: Enable or disable Print Statements as Analytics Events
        printStatementAsEventsEnabled : true,

        // Optional: Enable or disable automatic instrumentation of Http Request
        httpInstrumentationEnabled:true
        );

    NewrelicMobile.instance.start(config, () {
        runApp(MyApp());
    });

    class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
    ....
```

Make sure you pasted your application token(s) (copied from [Step 3](#app-token)) into `appToken = ""` in the code above. If you're monitoring both Android-native and iOS-native apps, you'll need to add separate tokens for both.

</Step>

<Step>
## (Android-only) Configure your Android app

If you have an Android-native app, you'll need make the following changes in your Android app:

1. Add the following changes to your app's `android/build.gradle` file:

```dart
buildscript {
        ...
        repositories {
            ...
            mavenCentral()
        }
        dependencies {
            ...

>             classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.2"

Reviewer: classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:${latest_android_version}"

>             classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:6.9.2"

Author: ```suggestion
            classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:${latest_android_version}"
```
